The Washington ABC radio brings you and on the scene broadcast with the Senate investigation
into the controversy between Senator McCarthy and the United States Army.
This is John Edwards reporting from the caucus room and the Senate office building on Capitol
Hill.
Where the afternoon session in this day of the hearings and the controversy is ready
to begin or should be beginning in a very few minutes.
Members of the Senate subcommittee investigating the contentors here.
We're getting the contentors here.
We're after the lunch period and I saw Senator Gorshack of Idaho, the so-called seventh member
of the subcommittee appointed to replace Senator McCarthy.
When McCarthy stepped down to the sidelines for the duration of the inquiry, Senator Gorshack
came into the room just a few minutes ago and has taken his seat.
He is the senator from Idaho, Senator Simonton, a Democrat of Missouri, as just entered,
is coming to the witness table.
A few of the principals are already there.
Let's see, over on the witness stand.
Yes, Secretary of the Army Stevens has taken his seat up to witness stand.
Mr. Stevens has been on the stand for six consecutive days.
We could go today on Thursday when the hearings opened.
He read along prepared statements through the subcommittee.
He's been beginning on the following day of Friday.
And then after the weekend recess, again on Monday through the end Wednesday, he's on the
stand and supposedly would conclude his testimony this morning.
Or I should say, the cost examination to which he has been projected.
However, while the council, Ray Jenkins, has completed his testimony, or completed his examination.
And while the other senators have completed theirs, Senator McCley, he still has some questions that he wants to ask.
Now, there's a little noise at the entrance to the hearing room.
And yes, it's private.
G David Schein has entered and has made his first appearance in the committee room and the caucus room since the beginning of these hearings.
The photographer's and reporters are crowded around.
He's standing very tall.
Boy, it's two or three standing looking very impassively over the entire group, saying nothing.
Schein is the former unpaid aide to the McCarthy subcommittee, who is the subject of this, so much of this controversy, you know.
The charges that Senator McCarthy is subcommittee council, Roy Cohn, and his executive director, Francis Carr, exited an undue pressure to, uh, or exited undue pressure to, uh, get preferential treatment for private Schein.
The western private Schein has been most recently at Camp Gordon, near Augusta, in Georgia.
Only a few miles away from the Augusta National Golf Club, where a president and I had an order vacation, totally a week ago.
He was brought back to Washington, put on temporary duty at Fortenmeyer, outside Washington.
Uh, temporary duty for the duration of these hearings to be made available to the Senate subcommittee for questioning if they so wish.
Yesterday, one so much testimony came up in connection with, uh, private Schein.
Certain items were supposedly out of the Inspector General's report.
Uh, about certain things which the Army did to, you might say, cuddle private Schein while he was a rookie, because of that it was insisted that Schein be given the permission to attend the hearing, uh, the tend, the hearing if he so wish.
And, uh, private Schein, uh, last night sent word, uh, that he would not attend the hearing unless he was requested.
So, just informed here by one of my colleagues that Ray Jenkins, the subcommittee council, who came into the room and took his seat while I was talking,
that Ray Jenkins, the council, says that private Schein is here to testify this afternoon.
So, that will mean that we will very likely have a little activity during this afternoon session.
Certain atmosphere of anticipation about the place right now, right at the moment all in the, in the eyes of the many photographers.
Uh, next.
So, let's crowd it around several of the principals involved now that they've left private Schein, seated directly in front of me, where I am sitting just a few feet away.
In fact, is Mr. Drew H. Drew H. Drew H. The assistant secretary of the, uh, of defense assistant secretary of defense, who has become one of the principals in this controversial next semester.
Mr. Hensel is his special attorney, Mr. Frederick Bryan of New York, several, uh, officers from Le Penne gone to the side.
Another little commotion here, Senator McCarty has just entered the committee room, shaking hands with private Schein and the impassive face.
The private has now opened into a big smile. The photographers have left their, have left some of the other principals involved and have moved, uh, moved around the private and, uh, around the senator.
Senator McCarty is now, uh, Senator McCarty is now taking his seat,
seat which he has at the long witness table. My colleague Gunner Back sends me an old to say that there's a lot of confusion out there is to just where private Schein will sit that there is no place for him.
Uh, Secretary of the Army Stevens is supposed to testify, uh, a completed testimony and, uh, apparently Mr. Schein is to testify.
Oh, you heard Senator Montsay that they were waiting to see if they had worked in the senate as to whether they would have to leave for a word call apparently they've had the word, are going ahead with the afternoon hearing this time.
The question is those to whether private Schein, if he is to testify, to testify immediately or whether they will wait until Secretary of the Army Stevens has completed his testimony. Mr. Stevens is still sitting at the witness table however,
with his, uh, special counsel, uh, Joseph Wells of Boston sitting at his side, and, uh, private Schein is standing near one end of the, uh, press and radio table.
I say one end, I'm at one end of it which is, uh, which is right at the side of the committee table.
Private Schein is at the other end near the entrance, who is, uh, they caught this room I hardly seem for a few moments, so so many people have crowded around him.
Taking a seat at the table, smiling a little bit to some of the people who are sitting there.
I just saw Senator Henry Jackson of Washington, Democratic Washington, a member of the subcommittee entered the room and looked around, saw Private Schein.
He did what you'd call a double take, he was pretty much surprised to see, so I imagine that the private disappearance here this afternoon is definitely, uh, a surprise to certain members of the subcommittee.
At any rate the word was last night, after the hearing last evening, Private Schein appeared on Capitol Hill, uh, spent a, an hour with members of the subcommittee staff and it was said afterwards that he would be available for, uh, testifying a very short time.
Let's turn to the witness chair and hour, or to the, uh, chairman, seat, now, where Senator Month has diffracted for order.
Well, uh, even though Senator Month has wrapped his, uh, his gavvold and called the committee in this, uh, it's session for the afternoon session of this six day in the hearing,
still nothing to indicate that they're going to start immediately.
Cloud Steel will around Private Schein, Private David Schein, down at, uh, the other end of this radio and television table of art, about, uh, I should say three feet away from where I'm sitting.
Um, couple of photographers, one newsreel photographer who just climbed up on the table, who, take a picture, looking down at Schein, who's sitting there for a quietly.
There's three other photographers that go together around again.
So people often ask the question, uh, speaking of the steel photographers and pictures, that is, in particular, the people who take just the one shot.
Why do they take so many pictures all the time?
And if you ask a photographer that, he will say to you, well, you're a reporter, you take lots of notes.
Yes, you have to answer. Yes, I do. Well, you don't use all your notes to you.
Well, we don't use all our pictures, but we have them in case we need them.
Uh, I'm told that, uh, some of the reporters who try to say something to Private Schein have just had a nod and smile.
We absolutely make no comment at all to, uh, any correspondents, anyone, who's brought it around him.
He has both of these pictures, so I was continuing to post some.
And of course, he didn't post that one picture with a big smile with Senator McCarthy a few minutes ago.
One of the big issues of this, uh, well, let's go back to Chairman Munt now, who is called to order.
Now, again, that the guests in the committee, who are here at the place, here at the committee, we're happy to have you be here.
We asked for only one thing.
Sometimes the committee will be trained to make any manifestations that will prove all far different to the already encores of the hearing.
Here we all have a message announced.
This written in the column, definitely, was submitted about the rule or not.
A Senator is concluding in the meeting.
And that's a little bit in debt.
And so we think we must try anyway because sometimes it takes us wrong for a Senator to conclude the speech,
as opposed to go around and go around with questions.
So I have a comment on what you proceed.
Chairman, and the President makes this up to come out.
Secretary Steven has been on the business stand as I recall now from six days.
It is evidence that he is somewhat exhausted, yet committee views the out of deference to the Secretary.
And to the fact that he has been subjected to an examination and cross-examination for such an inorganously long time, in view of that fact.
In view of the fact that he is the wish of the committee that he questions with his own easy afternoon.
They were born to with respect to the full of drought and introduced with the Secretary and private shine of should be settled.
And that's an in-view of the fact that Mr. Wresch, not only is I understand it compares with us.
In our decision to have the Secretary stand as I, but the question that it views over the reasons of our state,
we have decided to ask Mr. Steven's to stand as I, and now introduce who will respect to the full of drought on November 17th.
Mr. Wresch, I have been with my understanding and I desire to emphasize this that no witnesses belong with respect to any of the circumstances with reference to the taking of us pictures,
or to the picture in your do's as an exhibit shall be examined or caused by any member of the committee or any council,
on any matter, staying with respect to the photographs, the circumstances under which it was taken, and the introduction of the photograph I met,
and I may, with all these efforts, to the members of this committee who have your full objections,
you may even remember to give the committee the opportunity to ask for the resolution for the vote of all of us.
And you may vote.
I suggest one modification in a witness who steps aside is subject to cross examination with respect to his creditors.
On any issue.
I assume that I, I, I, I, I go when his fellow metrics are gone, that his one of the views of the controversial and the ascendant of a fellow,
I have given this that just be a tougher subject to be in fact.
Mr. Gentlemen, you can take that to these relevant line of trust and deletion.
I am the one who has a long time to do in common with the, I am tired of what I left, I am very tired of,
and I will take on a case.
I don't know, I don't know, there is a any other reason, and I would say it's highly unfair.
It's a great deal to let us know that I was left in the middle of our life.
Mr. Chairman.
I do not make any such request, Mr. Steven,
just wanted you to make it entirely clear that he's a member of the Army,
that he was all followed as thinking that he required you to while was told by Mr. Jenkins this morning,
that he do a simple intention to go into the picture incidents almost of the opening of this morning's session.
I then gave my consent to that case, that consent Mr. Jenkins did all the same.
I am not a man from the back that's putting you in that test of only on-mobiles.
Mr. Steven's a little rest of automatic.
You were not, however, permissive you have for a quarter.
You were pretty clever to go on rather than seeing any signal flying so up of any lack of courage on his part.
I think it is clear better for that if the priority won't go on, but I have that as is possible.
I am prepared to have the rest.
I received a decision that I have seen, that it should be fair enough to finish this morning in an executive session,
what is the title of the fall, the procedures that I have now seen you.
Mr. Chairman, that's done by a local, but I think it was them, that's definitely me.
Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman, that's the term.
There's only one race on earth while we should break the usual rule for falling.
That is the whipping for any time.
The rules that he wants their rest, he should have.
I may say that I have no personal central place for this particular whipping.
He has initiated the charges, asking for the wrecking of the reputations of jobs of my students, top men and my comedians.
I have many questions to ask him about that.
Now, to break this up to Mr. Chairman, if I like to rule the broad doctors,
sometimes a goal would be I think a mistake and a mistake in the secretary wants the rest,
and that's no such a great outcome.
I find it a life on myself, please.
And that's the last thing I want the rest, I don't think we should just mess with the rest.
If it's very clear, if it's very clear, as you take down the responsibility,
the state is able to use the secretary's team to turn the rules,
and for our rest, by having been the deputy questioning for a long time,
secondly, the rule until the hearing and violence of the council is put on the evidence
in the order that he needs to be that and to this.
And the fact that this is the number one thing you can look at this time,
and that you're going to look at this time.
Well, I don't want to take up too much time with this,
but let me say this, that the rule was, the rule of the doctors was
that whenever a witness was on the span,
there was all of it.
10 minutes, the rich man availed him until the witness was testimony,
haven't completed.
Now, to break out his testimony,
for other witnesses, I think it's a complete violation of my rule,
may I say no to Chairman?
May I say no?
No, may I say no?
That one of the rich who has been sharing the rules of my life
is currently the repair of the committee.
The point's gone in my place, but if I have the assurance,
that there's been no change in the ground rule during the hearing.
A whole other way, I would not have asked no one myself in the committee.
And I just think it's much a deck of the rules.
And I think I can do, there's a reason I have to be asked
to come to play.
There is my answer to the answer to this, because I think many parts,
I am talking to one of the best lawyers,
who can't hear it, which is completely fair, I think,
and I just want to bring the
ga to the committee.
I can't wait to ask you that.
I'm on the left.
And then may I say in this,
will the committee argue every like them,
or will I say this,
that you are changing the ground rules for the middle of the day,
we're agreeing about to do this.
I would do that if Mr. Stevens is tired of hearing.
Otherwise, we have a man who is the most brilliant charge
to use the reputation of the integrity of the House.
The micromanian should not be allowed to step down merely
for the purpose of removing his fortunes
of discussing the matter of comfort.
What about the board?
May the chair take you left the chair of the president
and every union to come and meet that for him.
It is not done in the form of a council that
secretary would even do properly to dismiss from the president,
so he'd be deprived of all the rights
and driving the members of the House to ask the question
and he wants to ask, and the reason
is that the ten-minute rule is the all questions are discussed.
This was the chair of the point of order.
This was the chair of the point.
This is the area that is in the right way.
We have an agenda.
I'm going to break it down.
The chair of the House, and that's an agenda.
The committee needs a one.
And I do it with my members.
I'm going to do an agenda.
On this chair, I'm on my make-up board of orders.
My understanding that the reason why
evidence is not of the effect of money,
is not of the requested by the council,
is because of the incidents that occurred on Monday,
with reference to a photograph that has been given to the council.
I assume that it's always in order,
in order to properly question the witness in this case,
that is evidence is introduced,
which was not as represented,
that we have a right to have that information before the witness.
Finally steps down from the witness back.
I've seen no change in the rules,
and I assume that a point of order properly lies against any subject.
In that, you should step ahead to suffice,
not necessarily because of where,
I would insist regardless by the system,
as you know from the beginning,
and this chair of the forefathers,
which is the case.
The council has the rules,
and the chairman has the rules,
and the chairman has the right to have the right to have the right to work.
Chairman, one of the reasons why I might appear to be insistent now,
is that I don't like the self-president.
I stepped off the committee and for our right,
after the curtain of Brown,
and the Brown rule of the Court reached to by many,
and the committee agreed to that,
and I have to leave you an office,
after the long as we followed all of the Brown rules,
I will not act as a member of the committee.
One of the Brown rules was that, today,
the witness was on the stand.
Everyone on the committee,
counsel for all parties and turn in,
would have an opportunity to exhaust their examination.
Before he left the stand,
that is the rule.
Now, if there is something of a minimum importance
for all of the witnesses,
or if I say the secretary has had good underweigh
Mr. Chairman, I think that we're setting a dangerous precedent.
And let me ask you this, Mr. Chairman.
I understand now that you intend to put on albums about
a picture of Mr. Stevens and Mr. Shine.
Could I ask our all of the pictures?
Could I have a whole year from the military
photographers available?
Did not have the other reason why we did not
attend that sessiontoventry season.
At Tuesday I say goodbye.
Jennifer I repeat,
it is justœ y ł
l
a
25% of the hearing is gone.
So far we haven't done anything.
Well, Mr. Moudejo is ready for the recording.
Mr. Chairman, I'm in the cardiac.
Mr. Chairman, where I say this,
I am going to leave it up to the judgment of council.
I will withdraw any objections and leave it up to the judgment of council.
I don't think we're about to leave it in proceed.
We're going to leave testimony.
I don't need any.
Get your consent secretary of defense.
There's no doubt in the council's role.
Chairman, I desire to call up the first witness.
I have a C David Jack.
I have a child.
Whoa!
By the shine, call of the witness then.
Secretary of the Army Stevens has stepped aside.
Mr. Shine who is sitting at one end of the radio press table
is moving slowly through the crowd.
Now weeding his way slowly up to the witness stand,
smiling at one of the reporters whom he recognized.
Now ready to take his seat and we'll turn back to Mr. Jenkins
who is ready to swear him in.
I'll get you guys to the radio press table.
Excuse me.
Copyrights, D.B.D.
Will you please state your name in the fall?
Sure.
Our David Shine, sir.
Where are you now, station private shines?
An station that bought my order.
You were in the army?
I'm sorry.
Mr. Shine, I want to make this statement to you at this time.
I think it is proper.
The inquiry of you at this time will be in time the one-subject only.
If you are asked any questions with respect to any other issue or controversy in this fall,
in this controversy, I respectfully ask you not to answer the live cell of time
the interpolish objection.
The inquiry is directed to a full-of-graphed,
a legitimate taken-off use,
secretaries, demons, and law-per-touch others.
Where were you?
Turn the phone, ask my order.
In Port of Order, I make it in the nature of a Port of Order.
I should like to ask the same, as Council's winner,
the same, that will proceed with the witness,
whether he has been advised of his rights to have Council President,
and if he desires to have Council President cast this time.
Here is the end of my way to the Council, finally, and certainly to look at that.
This time, do you understand that if it is your constitutional rights,
and if you're right, according to the rules of this committee,
permanent and subcommittee,
that you have the rights to have Council President to advise you from time to time during the course of your examination?
Will the...
do you desire to obey yourself of that right?
I have no counsel with you, sir.
Do you desire Council with you for the purpose of conferring and receiving his advice during the inquiry on this particular subject?
I believe I can answer the questions regarding this particular subject without counsel, sir.
Please say to where you were on November 17, 1953.
What day was that, sir?
November 17, and to call to your mind specifically what I have is my mind.
The day you allegedly were photographed with the Secretary of the Army and perhaps others.
I was the 46th Majority Service.
Please tell a committee of whether or not you were photographed on that day together with others.
I was there.
Under what circumstances?
You see the Secretary of the Army on that day.
Yes, sir.
How did he arrive at Fort Deicks?
I was in a certain position.
In a narrow plane, sir.
He was there, a landing field at Fort Deicks, or an airport near Fort Deicks.
There is one adjoining Fort Deicks there.
You will call the name of the airport.
McGuire and half-fart space there.
You will remember the incident of the Secretary arriving by plane on November 17, at Fort Deicks.
Where do you have the flag?
At this point, we pause briefly in seconds for station identification.
You are tuned to New York City's own station, WNYC.
Ah!
And by the commanding general of the base, the State of Maine, the general Ryan, sir.
General Ryan, order to duty at the McGuire Air Base to meet the plane, kind of putting the Secretary of the Army.
Yes, sir.
Do you know where we reside by General Ryan, who the passengers were on that plane?
No, sir.
Do you know why General Ryan ordered to meet the plane?
Do I know, no, sir?
Do you know why General Ryan told you why he were to meet the plane?
I believe he told me, sir, that some of the Senate Investigations Committee staff,
Senator McCarthy and Secretary Steven for coming to see me, sir.
You know all the hour of arrival of the plane.
It was right after retreat, sir.
That would be about one time.
I believe about 530 or 436, sir.
Still day light.
I believe it was just the entry in the evening, sir.
Who were all the planes?
Senator McCarthy, sir.
Roy Cohn, Frank Scott, Secretary Steven, John Adams.
And I, that might have been the one or two others, but I remember that.
This is your time.